## Kurt Vonnegut
#novel

Reading Vonnegut's other and potentially more popular novel [[Slaughterhouse 5]] left me with the lingering thirst for more Vonnegut. *God Bless You, Mr. Rosewater* did not disappoint. 
As a brief synopsis, *GBYMR* follows **Eliot Rosewater**, head of the Rosewater Foundation, which itself is a parallel to the fortune of 20th century -illionaires like Carnegie and Rockefeller (In fact, Rockefeller is mentioned in the story of the book). **Eliot** is a ptsd riddled WWII vet and a raging alcoholic. His education and disillusionments about society inspired him to leave his wife, uproot his haughty life, and move to *Rosewater County, Indiana*: a fictional place named after **Eliot's** relative. 
There in *Rosewater County*, **Eliot** plays into his childhood fantasies of being part of the fire brigade and sets up a call line using funds from the foundation he mans. The story primarily follows **Eliot's** infinite, often unsolicited kindness which he seeks to enact on everyone in *Rosewater County*.
	It is on **Eliot's** exploration of his own pursuit of loving everyone that he discovers the science fiction author ***Kilgore Trout*** who writes of fantastical space aliens and depressing, world ending, and ludicrous scenarios. **Eliot** often finds comfort and meaning in these ridiculous stories more than in the world around him
Meanwhile, **Mushari**, a lawyer from the law firm representing and managing the Rosewater Foundation, sees an opportunity to target the weakness in the family (evident in **Eliot's** bizarre happenings in *Rosewater County*) and earn a big settlement for Rhode Island relatives of the Rosewaters (and importantly, for himself). 
	The Rhode Island Rosewaters represent an unhappy, disconnected upper-middle class. They are envious of their wealthier friends and ashamed of their own menial, managerial jobs in life-insurance (money that they will only ever earn when they die) to the point of being suicidal. It is only when **Mushari** presents a meaning that was always absent in their life that the Rhode Island Rosewaters find any purpose.
**Eliot** starts to delve further into his own delusions, with his father (the senator of the *Rosewater County*) trying to keep the money in the Indiana-side of the family. 
	It is important to note that the father's struggle to keep the money "in the family" only perpetuates a centuries old family dispute that started between two Rosewater brothers
After a final, year-long lapse in **Eliot's** psyche, his father, his lawyer, and his favorite author ***Kilgore Trout*** all prepare him for a court appearance planned by **Mushari** and the Rhode Island Rosewaters. The town was caught in a sort of **Eliot-Craze**, enamored by his unwavering kindness. Women began to start claiming their children were his. **Eliot** concludes that the money be inherited by all of the dubious Rosewater children, effectively spoiling everyone's plans.

Truly an entertaining read, and worth the while. Those the stories are distinctly jumpy (distinctly 'Vonnegut'), sitting with this satire gave me time to reflect on how money and power effect people in ridiculous ways, the horrors of PTSD and alcoholism, and the gifts of love.